Add docs for CA1865/CA1866/CA1867 (#36417)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1865-ca1867.md

---

> title: "CA1865: Use char overload"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "CA1865-CA1867: Use char overload"
```

description: "Use 'string.Method(char)' instead of 'string.Method(string)' when you have a string with a single char"
ms.date: 07/27/2023
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:

>   - CA1865

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - CA1865
  - CA1866
  - CA1867
```

helpviewer_keywords:

>   - CA1865

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - CA1865
  - CA1866
  - CA1867
```

dev_langs:
  - CSharp
  - VB
author: mrahhal
---

> # CA1865-CA1867: Use 'string.Method(char)' instead of 'string.Method(string)' when you have a string with a single char

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# CA1865-CA1867: Use 'string.Method(char)' instead of 'string.Method(string)' for string with single char
```

Author: Not sure about this one as I actually had a similar message in the impl PR but it was corrected to [this](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers/pull/6799/files#diff-5d2487f8d1310f0861cdc9af913a873a8559b3a669bccc14dd1e44edca7d652dR2112). Should I still apply this suggestion?

Reviewer: I guess you are talking about [this suggestion](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers/pull/6799#discussion_r1274237604). "When you have a..." seems too long-winded, especially for a title. I think "for" is better.

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1865-CA1867                          |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |

> | **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should this be true for 1865 and 1866?
```

Author: I believe this is "No" for all the three rules (since they're .net 8 rules). Might need @tarekgh to confirm.

Author: I don't mind, but all the other new .net 8 analyzers have this same "Enabled by default in .NET 7" (e.g. [1](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1868), [2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1864), [3](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1861))

So I feel this has a slight different meaning, and it should remain consistent too.

## Cause

`string.Method(string)` is used when `string.Method(char)` was available.

The target methods on `string` for these rules:

- `StartsWith`
- `EndsWith`
- `IndexOf`
- `LastIndexOf`

> The following table summarizes the conditions for each rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table summarizes the conditions for each of the related rule IDs.
```

> | Diagnostic ID | Description | CodeFix |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Diagnostic ID | Description | Code fix available |
```

| - | - | - |

> | CA1865 | Applies when a safe transformation can be performed automatically with a CodeFix. | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CA1865 | Applies when a safe transformation can be performed automatically with a code fix. | Yes |
```

| CA1866 | Applies when there's no specified comparison. | No |

> | CA1867 | Applies for any other string comparison not covered by the other rules. | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CA1867 | Applies for any other string comparison not covered by the other two rules. | No |
```

> Note that CA1867 is disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CA1867 is disabled by default.
```

## Rule description

> The char overload is a better performing overload than a string with a single char.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The overload that takes a char parameter performs better than the overload that takes a string parameter.
```

## How to fix violations

> The rule is fixed by using the char overload instead of a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix a violation, use the char parameter overload instead of the string parameter overload.
```

> Given the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following example:
```

```csharp
public bool StartsWithLetterI()
{
    var testString = "I am a test string.";
    return testString.StartsWith("I");
}
```

```vb
Public Function StartsWithLetterI() As Boolean
    Dim testString As String = "I am a test string."
    Return testString.StartsWith("I")
End Function
```

> This code can be changed to use a char instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code can be changed to pass ``I`` to `StartsWith` instead of the string `"I"`.
```

```csharp
public bool StartsWithLetterI()
{
    var testString = "I am a test string.";
    return testString.StartsWith('I');
}
```

```vb
Public Function StartsWithLetterI() As Boolean
    Dim testString As String = "I am a test string."
    Return testString.StartsWith("I"c)
End Function
```

## When to suppress warnings

Suppress a violation of this rule if you're not concerned about the performance impact of calling the method with a string.

## Suppress a warning

If you just want to suppress a single violation, add preprocessor directives to your source file to disable and then re-enable the rule.

```csharp

> #pragma warning disable CA1865

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#pragma warning disable CA1865 // or CA1866 or CA1867
```

// The code that's violating the rule is on this line.

> #pragma warning restore CA1865

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#pragma warning restore CA1865 // or CA1866 or CA1867
```

```

To disable the rule for a file, folder, or project, set its severity to `none` in the [configuration file](../configuration-files.md).

```ini
[*.{cs,vb}]

> dotnet_diagnostic.CA1865.severity = none

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1865.severity = none
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1866.severity = none
dotnet_diagnostic.CA1867.severity = none
```
